# **Files and I/O operations :**  

In Python we don't directly work with files, but with something called `stream` which contains methods we use to perform certain actions that affect the real life.  


### **Stream actions :**

* open() - Connects to a stream which allows us to open the file. We can open a file in either read mode, write mode, or update mode.

    *Syntax:*  

    ```python
    stream = open("path/to/file", "r")
    ```
    **Modes to open a text file :**

    * r - to open it in Read mode
    * w - Write mode
    * a - Append mode
    * r+ - Read and update mode
    * w+ - Write and update mode  

    For r and r+ mode the file needs to exist, for others it will create a file if it doesn't exist.

    **Modes for Binary files :**
    * rb - Read mode
    * wb - Write mode
    * ab - Append mode
    * r+b - Read and update mode
    * w+b - Write and update mode 

* close() - Closes the connection to the stream.  


___


### **Types of Stream :**

*Text Stream :* A sequence of typographical characters (letters, digits, etc). The file is written character by character or line by line.  


*Binary Stream :* A sequence of bytes.


When the program starts three streams are opened automatically 

* sys.stdin : Responsible for reading data by the running program.  eg. input()

* sys.stdout : Responsible for outputting data by the running program.  eg. print()

* sys.sterr : Responsible for errors raised by the running program

These are available in system module.


____

### **Reading a file :**

read()

eg.  

```python
from os import strerror

try :
    stream = open('text.txt', "rt")
    character = stream.read(1)
    while character != '':
        print(character, end ='\n')
        character = stream.read(1)
    stream.close()

except IOError as e:
    print("I/O error occured: ", strerror(e.errno))
```

____


### **bytearray :**

Specialized class to handle amorpous data.

*Syntax:*

```python
data = bytearray(5)
print(data)
```
___